.\" Manpage for ccop
.TH ccop 1 "July 2024" "v0.1.0" "Commit Cop Manual"

.SH NAME
ccop \- Commit message enforcement for Git projects

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ccop
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBccop\fR is a CLI tool that enforces clean, structured commit messages in Git repositories.
It installs a Git \fIcommit-msg\fR hook that validates your commit messages against a user-configurable format defined in a YAML config file.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --version
Show the version and exit.

.TP
.B --help
Show the help message and exit.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Install the commit-msg Git hook in the current repository.

.TP
.B uninstall
Remove the commit-msg hook from the current repository.

.TP
.B validate
Validate a commit message manually against the rules.

.TP
.B config
Add, remove, or list allowed commit types and scopes.

.TP
.B format
Display the valid commit message format and usage examples.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B configs/default.yaml
Default YAML configuration file that defines commit message rules (types and scopes).

.SH EXAMPLES
Initialize commit hook in current repo:
.PP
ccop init

.PP
Add a new commit type:
.PP
ccop config add type chore

.PP
Validate a message manually:
.PP
ccop validate "fix(api): Resolve authentication bug"

.SH NOTES
You can customize your commit types and scopes by editing the \fBdefault.yaml\fR config file or using the \fBconfig\fR command group.

.SH AUTHOR
Developed by Sparsh, 2025.

.SH VERSION
v0.1.0

.SH ASCII ART
.nf
          ______
         / ____/___  ____ ___  ____ _____
        / /   / __ \/ __ `__ \/ __ `/ __ \
       / /___/ /_/ / / / / / / /_/ / /_/ /
       \____/\____/_/ /_/ /_/\__,_/ .___/
                                /_/

     Commit Cop — Commit Clean, Commit Confidently.
.fi

.SH FOOTER
Made with ❤️ by Sparsh
